Improve the Array article. (#12781)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/array/index.md

---
{{JSRef}}

> The **`Array`** object represents an [array](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays), and has members for [performing common array operations](#examples).

Reviewer: I like this rewrite overall, but I do think we should make some sort of effort to characterize an array in terms other than _array_. The rewrite does a good job of dumping a lot of accumulated… stuff, but I did like how the previous version characterized arrays in additional terms. I'd like to see something like that return here, even in a very limited way (e.g., "represents an array—a list-like sequence of values—and has members for…" would satisfy me, but I'm open to whatever).

Reviewer 2: @sideshowbarker Seems I'm not the only one with this comment :-). I know it was a "designed decision" but  the tautology "Array is an array" is hard to bare, and it wouldn't hurt to provide a few words (other than the more you say the more people will pick at). 

The learn link is good, so if it gets removed from here would be good to keep it as either further reading, or even as a link from the intro "if you need a softer introduction ..."

Author: OK, I went with this:

> The **`Array`** object, as with arrays in other programming languages, enables [storing a collection of multiple items under a single variable name](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays), and has members for [performing common array operations](#examples).

## Description

In JavaScript, arrays aren’t [primitives](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive) but are instead `Array` objects with the following core characteristics:

- **JavaScript arrays are resizable** and **can contain a mix of different [data types](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures)**. (When those characteristics are undesirable, use [typed arrays](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) instead.)

> - **JavaScript arrays are [zero-indexed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zero-based_numbering)**: the first element of an array is at index `0`, the second is at index `1`, and so on — and the last element is at the value of the array's {{jsxref("Array.length", "length")}} property minus `1`.

Reviewer 2: I think here or maybe in another point we need to say that the elements are not associative arrays - they have to use numbers. Then link down to your notes.

Author: > I think here or maybe in another point we need to say that the elements are not associative arrays - they have to use numbers. Then link down to your notes.

👍 Added

> - **JavaScript [array-copy operations](#copy_an_array) create [shallow copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy)**, not [deep copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy) (just as standard built-in copy operations with _any_ JavaScript objects create shallow copies, not deep copies).

Reviewer 2: The deep copy link is wrong. I think below is just a little more readable.
```suggestion
- **JavaScript [array-copy operations](#copy_an_array) create [shallow copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy)**. (All standard built-in copy operations with _any_ JavaScript objects create shallow copies, rather than [deep copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Deep_copy)).
```

```js
let newLength = fruits.push('Orange') // ["Apple", "Banana", "Orange"]
console.log(newLength)
// 3
```

### Remove the last item from an array

This example uses the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item ("`Orange`") from the `fruits` array.

```js
// Remove 'Orange' from the end of 'fruits'.
let last = fruits.pop() // ["Apple", "Banana"]
```

### Remove the first item from an array

This example uses the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item ("`Apple`") from the `fruits` array.

```js
// Remove 'Apple' from the front of 'fruits'.
let first = fruits.shift() // ["Banana"]
```

### Add a new first item to an array

This example uses the [`unshift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/unshift) method to add, at index `0`, a new item ("`Strawberry`") to the `fruits` array — making it the new first item in the array.

```js
// Add 'Strawberry' to the front of 'fruits'.
let newLength = fruits.unshift('Strawberry') // ["Strawberry", "Banana"]
console.log(newLength)
// 2
```

### Remove a single item by index

> This example uses the [`splice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) method to remove the string "`Banana`" from the `fruits` array — by specifying the index position of "`Banana`".

Reviewer 2: It might be good to mention what happens to the removed element here or in the next topic. I think it is relevant.
```suggestion
This example uses the [`splice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) method to remove the string "`Banana`" from the `fruits` array — by specifying the index position of "`Banana`".
Removed elements, in this case "`Banana`", are returned by the method in a new array.
```

```js
// This is how to remove a single item.
let removedItem = fruits.splice(fruits.indexOf('Banana'), 1)

console.log(fruits)
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]
// So, 'fruits' has been changed in place.

// fruits.splice(pos, 1) returns an array of the items
// removed, which we assigned above to 'removedItem'.
console.log(removedItem)
// ['Banana']
```

> ### Remove multiple items by index

Reviewer 2: This is good, but there are other cool things that [`splice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) can do - some which you might mention here and others that you might mention elsewhere
- You can specify just start with no count value to strip off the end of the array from that point - I'd add something on that and maybe cross link from pop.
- You can use a negative start value. No idea how that works because the text in the splice docs is gibberish
  >  "If negative, it will begin that many elements from the end of the array. (In this case, the origin -1, meaning -n is the index of the nth last element, and is therefore equivalent to the index of array.length - n.) If start is negative infinity, it will begin from index 0.
- YOu can add elements at the same time as you remove them.

You might not want to add all these options, but could be good to add a line mentioning them.

Author: > This is good, but there are other cool things that [`splice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) can do - some which you might mention here and others that you might mention elsewhere
> 
>     * You can specify just start with no count value to strip off the end of the array from that point - I'd add something on that and maybe cross link from pop.

Added a **Truncate an array down to just its first _N_ items** example for that.

>     * You can use a negative start value. No idea how that works because the text in the splice docs is gibberish
>       > "If negative, it will begin that many elements from the end of the array. (In this case, the origin -1, meaning -n is the index of the nth last element, and is therefore equivalent to the index of array.length - n.) If start is negative infinity, it will begin from index 0.

Added a **Remove multiple items from the end of an array** example for that.

>     * YOu can add elements at the same time as you remove them.

Added a **Replace multiple items in an array** example for that.

Reviewer 2: This is all good. Thank you.

This example uses the [`splice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) method to remove the strings "`Banana`" and "`Strawberry`" from the `fruits` array — by specifying the index position of "`Banana`", along with a count of the number of total items to remove.

```js
let fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Strawberry', 'Mango']

let pos = 1
let n = 2

// This is how to remove multiple items: 'n' is the total
// number of items to remove, starting at the index
// position 'pos' and progressing toward the end of array.
let removedItems = fruits.splice(pos, n)

console.log(fruits)
// ["Apple", "Mango"]
// So, 'fruits' has been changed in place.

// fruits.splice(pos, 1) returns an array of the items
// removed, which we assigned above to 'removedItems'.
console.log(removedItems)
// ["Banana", "Strawberry"]
```

> ### Call a function on each element in an array

Reviewer 2: Should we also have an example on iterating through an array - this would be one way, but of course there are the others?

Author: > Should we also have an example on iterating through an array - this would be one way, but of course there are the others?

Added an **Iterate over an array** example, using `for...of` — with mention/links for the many other ways to iterate over any array.

Reviewer 2: Yes, this is just right.

This example uses the [`forEach()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/forEach) method to call a function on each element in the `fruits` array; the function causes each item to be logged to the console, along with the item’s index number.

```js
fruits.forEach(function(item, index, array) {
  console.log(item, index)
})
// Apple 0
// Banana 1
```

### Copy an array

This example shows three ways to create a new array from the existing `fruits` array: first by using [spread syntax](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax), then by using the [`from()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/from) method, and then by using the [`slice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice) method.

```js
let fruitsCopy

// Create a copy using spread syntax.
fruitsCopy = [...fruits]
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]

// Create a copy using the from() method.
fruitsCopy = Array.from(fruits)
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]

// Create a copy using the slice() method.
fruitsCopy = fruits.slice()
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]
```

> All built-in array-copy operations ([spread syntax](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax), [`Array.from()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/from), [`Array.prototype.slice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice), and [`Array.prototype.concat()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/concat)) create [shallow copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy). If you instead want a [deep copy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy) of an array, you can use {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}} to convert the array to a JSON string, and then {{jsxref("JSON.parse()")}} to convert the string back into a new array that’s completely independent from the original array.

Reviewer 2: First mention of `concat` - did you want to show that option too in example?

> All built-in array-copy operations ([spread syntax](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax), [`Array.from()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/from), [`Array.prototype.slice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice), and [`Array.prototype.concat()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/concat)) create [shallow copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy). If you instead want a [deep copy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy) of an array, you can use {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}} to convert the array to a JSON string, and then {{jsxref("JSON.parse()")}} to convert the string back into a new array that’s completely independent from the original array.

Reviewer 2: I am _slightly_ concerned that we introduce only the stringify approach for deep copies, and that this is duplicating information in the deep copy. I was wondering if we might append "other approaches are covered in the deep copy topic". Something to think about.

Author: > I am _slightly_ concerned that we introduce only the stringify approach for deep copies, and that this is duplicating information in the deep copy. I was wondering if we might append "other approaches are covered in the deep copy topic". Something to think about.

Added a mention of `structuredClone()`.

```js
let deepCopy = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(fruits));
```

> Finally, it’s important to understand that assigning an existing array to a new variable doesn’t create a copy. Instead the new variable is just a reference, or alias, to the original; that is, the original array’s name and the new variable name are just two names for the exact same object — and so, if you make any changes at all either to value of the original array or to the value of the new variable, the other will change, too:

Reviewer 2: Maybe 
```suggestion
Finally, it’s important to understand that assigning an existing array to a new variable doesn’t create a copy of either the array or its elements. Instead the new variable is just a reference, or alias, to the original array; that is, the original array’s name and the new variable name are just two names for the exact same object — and so, if you make any changes at all either to value of the original array or to the value of the new variable, the other will change, too:
```

```js
let fruits = ['Strawberry', 'Mango']

> let fruitsAlias = fruits;

Reviewer 2: You might also show a test on true equality - isn't that `===` in JavaScript. Not advocating - throwing up for consideration. What you have done here shows the "point".

Author: > You might also show a test on true equality - isn't that `===` in JavaScript.

Added that.

```js
let board = [
  ['R','N','B','Q','K','B','N','R'],
  ['P','P','P','P','P','P','P','P'],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  ['p','p','p','p','p','p','p','p'],
  ['r','n','b','q','k','b','n','r'] ]

console.log(board.join('\n') + '\n\n')

// Move King's Pawn forward 2
board[4][4] = board[6][4]
board[6][4] = ' '
console.log(board.join('\n'))
```

Here is the output:

```plain
R,N,B,Q,K,B,N,R
P,P,P,P,P,P,P,P
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
p,p,p,p,p,p,p,p
r,n,b,q,k,b,n,r

R,N,B,Q,K,B,N,R
P,P,P,P,P,P,P,P
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , ,p, , ,
 , , , , , , ,
p,p,p,p, ,p,p,p
r,n,b,q,k,b,n,r
```

### Using an array to tabulate a set of values

```js
values = []
for (let x = 0; x < 10; x++){
 values.push([
  2 ** x,
  2 * x ** 2
 ])
}
console.table(values)
```

Results in

```plain
// The first column is the index
0  1    0
1  2    2
2  4    8
3  8    18
4  16   32
5  32   50
6  64   72
7  128  98
8  256  128
9  512  162
```

> ### Notes

Reviewer 2: I think this should go up a level - it isn't an "other" example or really part of the previous example. If a more specific name than Notes could be used that would be awesome.

Author: >>  ### Notes 
> I think this should go up a level - it isn't an "other" example or really part of the previous example. If a more specific name than Notes could be used that would be awesome.

Thanks for catching that — I hadn’t actually realized I had it a level down; fixed now

- [`Array.prototype[@@iterator]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/@@iterator)
  - : Returns the [`values()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/values) function by default.

## Examples

This section provides some examples of common array operations in JavaScript. All the examples use an array of strings, named `fruits`, which is created in the first example.

> **Note:** If you’re not yet familiar with array basics, consider first reading [JavaScript First Steps: Arrays](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays), which [explains what arrays are](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays#what_is_an_array), and includes other examples of common array operations.

### Create an array

This example shows two ways to create new array — first by using [array literal notation](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Array#array_literal_notation), and then by using the [`Array()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Array) constructor.

```js
// 'fruits' array created using array literal notation.

> let fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana']
> console.log(fruits.length)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana'];
console.log(fruits.length);
```

// 2

// 'fruits' array created using the Array() constructor.

> let fruits = new Array('Apple', 'Banana');
> console.log(fruits.length)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const fruits = new Array('Apple', 'Banana');
console.log(fruits.length);
```

// 2
```

### Access an array item by its index

This example shows how to access items in the `fruits` array by specifying the index number of their position in the array.

```js
// The index of an array’s first element is always 0.
fruits[0] // Apple

// The index of an array’s second element is always 1.
fruits[1] // Banana

// The index of an array’s last element is always one
// less than the length of the array.
fruits[fruits.length - 1] // Banana

// Using a index number larger than the array’s length
// returns 'undefined'.
fruits[99] // undefined
```

### Find the index of an item in an array

This example uses the [`indexOf()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/indexOf) method to find the position (index) of the string "`Banana`" in the `fruits` array.

```js

> console.log(fruits.indexOf('Banana'))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
console.log(fruits.indexOf('Banana'));
```

// 1
```

### Append an item to an array

This example uses the [`push()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/push) method to append a new string, "`Orange`" to the `fruits` array — changing the length of the array. The `forEach()` method returns the array’s new length, which gets assigned to the `newLength` variable.

```js

> let newLength = fruits.push('Orange') // ["Apple", "Banana", "Orange"]
> console.log(newLength)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const newLength = fruits.push('Orange'); // ["Apple", "Banana", "Orange"]
console.log(newLength);
```

// 3
```

### Remove the last item from an array

This example uses the [`pop()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/pop) method to remove the last item ("`Orange`") from the `fruits` array.

```js
// Remove 'Orange' from the end of 'fruits'.

> let last = fruits.pop() // ["Apple", "Banana"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const last = fruits.pop(); // ["Apple", "Banana"]
```

```

### Remove the first item from an array

This example uses the [`shift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/shift) method to remove the first item ("`Apple`") from the `fruits` array.

```js
// Remove 'Apple' from the front of 'fruits'.

> let first = fruits.shift() // ["Banana"]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const first = fruits.shift(); // ["Banana"]
```

```

### Add a new first item to an array

This example uses the [`unshift()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/unshift) method to add, at index `0`, a new item ("`Strawberry`") to the `fruits` array — making it the new first item in the array.

```js
// Add 'Strawberry' to the front of 'fruits'.

> let newLength = fruits.unshift('Strawberry') // ["Strawberry", "Banana"]
> console.log(newLength)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const newLength = fruits.unshift('Strawberry'); // ["Strawberry", "Banana"]
console.log(newLength);
```

// 2
```

### Remove a single item by index

This example uses the [`splice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) method to remove the string "`Banana`" from the `fruits` array — by specifying the index position of "`Banana`".
Removed elements (in this case "`Banana`"), are returned by the method in a new array.

```js
// This is how to remove a single item.

> let removedItem = fruits.splice(fruits.indexOf('Banana'), 1)
> 
> console.log(fruits)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const removedItem = fruits.splice(fruits.indexOf('Banana'), 1);

console.log(fruits);
```

// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]
// So, 'fruits' has been changed in place.

// fruits.splice(pos, 1) returns an array of the items
// removed, which we assigned above to 'removedItem'.

> console.log(removedItem)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
console.log(removedItem);
```

// ['Banana']
```

### Remove multiple items by index

This example uses the [`splice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/splice) method to remove the strings "`Banana`" and "`Strawberry`" from the `fruits` array — by specifying the index position of "`Banana`", along with a count of the number of total items to remove.

```js

> let fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Strawberry', 'Mango']

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const fruits = ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Strawberry', 'Mango'];
```

let pos = 1
let n = 2

// This is how to remove multiple items: 'n' is the total
// number of items to remove, starting at the index
// position 'pos' and progressing toward the end of array.

> let removedItems = fruits.splice(pos, n)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const removedItems = fruits.splice(pos, n);
```

> console.log(fruits)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
console.log(fruits);
```

```js
let fruitsCopy

// Create a copy using spread syntax.
fruitsCopy = [...fruits]
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]

// Create a copy using the from() method.
fruitsCopy = Array.from(fruits)
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]

// Create a copy using the slice() method.
fruitsCopy = fruits.slice()
// ["Strawberry", "Mango"]
```

All built-in array-copy operations ([spread syntax](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax), [`Array.from()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/from), [`Array.prototype.slice()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/slice), and [`Array.prototype.concat()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/concat)) create [shallow copies](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy). If you instead want a [deep copy](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Shallow_copy) of an array, you can use {{jsxref("JSON.stringify()")}} to convert the array to a JSON string, and then {{jsxref("JSON.parse()")}} to convert the string back into a new array that’s completely independent from the original array.

```js

> let deepCopy = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(fruits));

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const deepCopy = (o) => JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(o));
const fruits2 = deepCopy(fruits);
```

```

Finally, it’s important to understand that assigning an existing array to a new variable doesn’t create a copy of either the array or its elements. Instead the new variable is just a reference, or alias, to the original array; that is, the original array’s name and the new variable name are just two names for the exact same object — and so, if you make any changes at all either to value of the original array or to the value of the new variable, the other will change, too:

```js

> let fruits = ['Strawberry', 'Mango']
> let fruitsAlias = fruits;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const fruits = ['Strawberry', 'Mango'];
const fruitsAlias = fruits;
```

// Any changes to the 'fruits' array change 'fruitsAlias' too.

> fruits.unshift('Apple', 'Banana')

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
fruits.unshift('Apple', 'Banana');
```

console.log(fruits);
// ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Strawberry', 'Mango']
console.log(fruitsAlias);
// ['Apple', 'Banana', 'Strawberry', 'Mango']
```

## Other examples

### Creating a two-dimensional array

The following creates a chessboard as a two-dimensional array of strings. The first move is made by copying the `'p'` in `board[6][4]` to `board[4][4]`. The old position at `[6][4]` is made blank.

```js

> let board = [
>   ['R','N','B','Q','K','B','N','R'],
>   ['P','P','P','P','P','P','P','P'],
>   [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
>   [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
>   [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
>   [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
>   ['p','p','p','p','p','p','p','p'],
>   ['r','n','b','q','k','b','n','r'] ]
> 
> console.log(board.join('\n') + '\n\n')
> 
> // Move King's Pawn forward 2
> board[4][4] = board[6][4]
> board[6][4] = ' '
> console.log(board.join('\n'))

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const board = [
  ['R','N','B','Q','K','B','N','R'],
  ['P','P','P','P','P','P','P','P'],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  [' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' ',' '],
  ['p','p','p','p','p','p','p','p'],
  ['r','n','b','q','k','b','n','r'] ];

console.log(board.join('\n') + '\n\n');

// Move King's Pawn forward 2
board[4][4] = board[6][4];
board[6][4] = ' ';
console.log(board.join('\n'));
```

```

Here is the output:

```plain
R,N,B,Q,K,B,N,R
P,P,P,P,P,P,P,P
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
p,p,p,p,p,p,p,p
r,n,b,q,k,b,n,r

R,N,B,Q,K,B,N,R
P,P,P,P,P,P,P,P
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , , , , ,
 , , , ,p, , ,
 , , , , , , ,
p,p,p,p, ,p,p,p
r,n,b,q,k,b,n,r
```

### Using an array to tabulate a set of values

```js

> values = []
> for (let x = 0; x < 10; x++){
>  values.push([
>   2 ** x,
>   2 * x ** 2
>  ])
> }
> console.table(values)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const values = [];
for (let x = 0; x < 10; x++){
 values.push([
  2 ** x,
  2 * x ** 2,
 ]);
}
console.table(values);
```

---
{{JSRef}}

> The **`Array`** object represents an [array](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Array_data_structure), and has members for [performing common array operations](#examples).

Reviewer 2: FWIW, I would have a short but real definition here rather than link to array on wikipedia. I know that has lots of detail but as as an expert I won't bother, and as a beginner I'm already distracted. Just a line - "ordered collection of any type(s) of elements that can be iterated and indexed".

Author: Changed link target to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays as we’d discussed

---
{{JSRef}}

The **`Array`** object, as with arrays in other programming languages, enables [storing a collection of multiple items under a single variable name](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps/Arrays), and has members for [performing common array operations](#examples).

## Description

In JavaScript, arrays aren’t [primitives](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive) but are instead `Array` objects with the following core characteristics:

- **JavaScript arrays are resizable** and **can contain a mix of different [data types](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures)**. (When those characteristics are undesirable, use [typed arrays](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Typed_arrays) instead.)

> - **JavaScript arrays are not associative arrays** and so, [array elements cannot be accessed using strings as indexes](#notes) but must be accessed using integers as indexes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **JavaScript arrays are not associative arrays** and so, [array elements cannot be accessed using strings as indexes](#notes), but must be accessed using integers as indexes.
```

9  512  162
```

## Notes

> `Array` objects cannot use strings as element indexes (as in an [associative array](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Associative_array)) but must use integers. Setting or accessing via non-integers using [bracket notation](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Working_with_Objects#objects_and_properties) (or [dot notation](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Property_Accessors)) will not set or retrieve an element from the array list itself, but will set or access a variable associated with that array's [object property collection](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#properties). The array's object properties and list of array elements are separate, and the array's [traversal and mutation operations](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Indexed_collections#array_methods) cannot be applied to these named properties.

Reviewer 4: > `Array` objects cannot use strings as element indexes

This is wrong (or at the very least, poorly-worded). Arrays _can_ be indexed with strings, but only if they contain an (unsigned) integer ≥ 0:

~~~js
list = ["A", "B", "C"];
list["3"] = "D";
list.length === 4;
list.indexOf("D") === 3;
~~~

Conversely, an integer can be negative, whereas an array index cannot:

~~~js
list = [];
list[-1] = "Negative 1";
list.length === 0;
~~~
